today the phrase sport compact conjures
images of ten-year-old Honda's with
aftermarket coffee and exhaust outlets
but in reality a range of these
high-performance factory tune compacts
are available for the taking but what
the sport compact performance really
mean we put for these little speedsters
to the test from Japan we have two
entries the Honda Civic Si and the
supercharged scion tc representing
Germany it's the Volkswagen who you
first GTI and from the good old USA it's
the supercharged chevy cobalt wearing
the SS badge each contestant was fitted
with front-wheel drive and manual
transmission and a four-cylinder engine
that makes around 200 horsepower here's
how they did finishing fourth the
supercharged scion tc we applaud the
fact that scion tc buyers can tailor
their sleek upscale coupes with a wide
variety for mechanical and cosmetic
enhancements but the end result doesn't
compete on equal footing with the other
three sport compacts we assembled for
this test though the supercharged engine
is strong and relatively thrifty and
fuel it's not as thrilling as the motors
found in the cobalt or the GTI also the
shifter was mounted too high the
optional OBX shift knob felt unnatural
and the gates were vague so rowing
through the gears was a sloppy chore
handling however was the scions major
downfall the steering is an exact the
body rolls excessively and the brakes
felt squishy certainly for a price this
can be corrected with TRD parts or
through the aftermarket but then you've
got a TC that's significantly more
expensive than the other players
finishing third the Chevy Cobalt SS
supercharged it was clear from the first
lap around the streets of willow that
somebody at GM knows
the cobalt SS is a thrill a minute the
supercharged engine was always eager the
fine tuned exhaust note had a nice r
asking is to it and unlike the sloppy
scion the chevys five-speed manual
featured short throws leaking power
shifts as cinch best of all after hours
of testing abuse this bowtie-wearing
pocket rocket averaged 21 miles per
gallon but it was the cobalt's handling
that really made it shine helped in
large part by sticky Pirelli PZero tires
the chevy trax well in high speed
corners and offered plenty of feedback
through the leather wrap steering wheel
Chevy has definitely hitting enthusiasts
home run with this car but the picture
isn't all rosy the main problem with the
cobalt SS Supercharged aside from the
juvenile rear wing is with quality on
virtually every aspect of interior
design comfort and fit and finish the
cobalt came in last there's less legroom
the C flat proper support and the
surrounding plastic feels cheap also our
test cars front suspension started to
come unglued after a few laps on the
track if Chevy offered a spoiler delete
option and gave customers a reason to be
proud of the car by fusing with
dependability and quality materials the
cobalt may have come close to winning
this contest runner-up the honda civic
SI plan to ring the civic SI out for all
it's worth if you expect to play with
its 197 ponies because this is a dull
little coupe unless you push the engine
to its limit despite our best efforts
its utter lack of torque in the VTEC
engine narrow band of power limited the
SI to achieving the slowest maximum
velocity of the four cars during our
track testing Honda needs to add a
turbocharger in the civic SI right away
because other than that it proved to be
a great car to drive on the track the
brakes performed well the tires gripped
hard and the steering wheel was sharp
and precise and to top it off the Civic
gets good gas mileage while providing
the peace of mind that comes with Honda
strong reputation for durability also
helping the SI a chief second place is
its cutting-edge design that should age
with grace it's comfortable front bucket
seats sporty multifunction steering
wheel and great cargo space the interior
layout is simple logical and Driver
Orange
with a huge tachometer that helps keep
an eye on this high revving engine put
it all together and you've got a car you
can be comfortable in whether sitting in
traffic or traversing your favorite back
roads and our winner unpin pero bottles
everywhere the volkswagen GTI it wasn't
easy but based on our extensive test
driving the car you need to put at the
top of your shopping list is the
volkswagen GTI it doesn't quite match up
to the cobalt SS or the civic SI in the
corners but it's torquey turbocharged
engine helped the GTI attain the highest
track speeds of any car on the test the
shifter is smooth and the GTI's body
roll is a non-issue breaking on the
other hand could use some improvement
and fuel economy was the worst out of
the floor but when looking at the whole
package the GTI wins hands down it splat
upholstered sport seats are comfortable
supportive and well bolstered and the
tilting telescopic steering wheel is a
pleasure to hold the interior design is
stylish the controls are well laid out
and there's also plenty of room to
comfortably carry two rear seat
passengers as well as generous space for
cargo and as far as looks go if you're
into hatchbacks the GTI should float
your boat in the end the Volkswagen GTI
is incredibly fun to drive it's
extremely comfortable and it offers the
kind of utility you need for daily
living here's to our champion the
Volkswagen GTI